% -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- %

\section{Introduction}\label{sec:intro}

Efficient numerical solutions to kinetic equations is the basis for many fields in 
physics and has applications such as fusion energy generation in magnetically confined 
chambers, or dosage calculation in radiation therapy. Kinetic models are dependent on 
both physical space coordinates $x \in \Omega_x \subset \bbR^d$, $d = 1, 2, 3$ and 
velocity coordinates 
$v \in \Omega_v \subset \bbR^d$. A grid-based discretization with $n$ grid points in each 
dimension therefore incurs a computational cost of order $O(n^{2 d})$. Hence, direct 
solutions for the (kinetic) density function are prohibitively expensive. 

Recently, dynamical low-rank solvers for kinetic equations such as the Vlasov-Poisson 
equation have been proposed \cite{einkemmer2018}. These methods are based on 
\cite{lowrank}, in which matrix differential equations are approximated by low-rank 
matrices using a Galerkin principle. These solvers have been shown to be successful 
\cite{Cassini_2022}, but without additional care the projection to low-rank tensor 
products destroys important physical structure in the system. This can be alleviated by 
altering the approximation space such that some moments of the velocity coordinate always 
lie in the space spanned by the low-rank matrices \cite{robustlowrank}. This is sufficient 
to guarantee that continuity equations for mass, momentum, and energy are conserved up to 
an error that is linear in the time step size. 

In the following report we examine whether the conservative dynamical low-rank integrator 
also preserves further observables and if so, to what order. The report is structured as 
follows: in section \ref{sec:vlasov} the Vlasov-Poisson equation is introduced and 
conservation properties are discussed; in section \ref{sec:lowrank} the conservative 
dynamical low-rank integrator is shown; in section \ref{sec:landau} the integrator is 
demonstrated on an analytically understood example system. 
\todo{if some observable works, mention here}

% -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- %
